# Exercises sheet: Intro to OS


## OS structure

**1. Compare System call, interrupt, and trap, give examples for each of them to be triggered**
+ **Interrupt**: signal sent to the processor that interrupt the current execution thread. It can be generated by hardware (e.g., memory) or software.
+ **Trap**: a software generated synchronous interrupts. It may be the result of a fault (e.g., division by zero).
+ **System call**: a way for programs to interact with the operating system. A computer program makes a system call when it makes a request to the operating system’s kernel. 


**2. Explain the concept of rings on Intel architecture. Compare to privilege level on MIPS architecture.**
+ Intel architecture have 4 Rings (0 to 3).
   + The most privileged ring is Ring 0 which contains the kernel.
   + Ring 3 contains userspace processes.
   + Ring 1/2 are designed for things such as driver, but are in practice not used by operating systems such as Linux.
   + The Ring restrict the execution of certain type of instructions and memory accesses.
+ MIPS architecture only have two privilege levels.


**3. Explain in your own words what is the main role of an operating system**
+ A computer program that Multiplexes hardware resources and implements resource abstractions. It helps managing the hardware while hiding any complexity using abstractions.

**4. How can we trigger a change in modes?**
+ Sleeping beauty approach: can be done through: trap, interrupts and system calls.
+ Alarm clock approach: involves setting up "alarms" for tasks or processes that need to be executed at a later time. When the specified time arrives, the alarm triggers, causing the operating system to execute the corresponding task.

**5. What happens after a trap has been invoked.**
+ After handling the cause of the trap, the process returns to its previous activity.







